One of the key factors to succeed,
to minimize risks and maximize
chances of success when
we are undertaking or when
we are creating any product
or any business model that
has a certain degree of uncertainty
or innovation
is to have a lot of practice
identifying the main
hypotheses.
What are the chances?
Well, because hypotheses are those
beliefs or those acts of faith
or those assumptions that you
are doing but that we really
do not yet have the proof, the practical
and real proof that it will
be so.
You believe that the customer will
behave in a certain way, you believe
that he will be willing to pay x,
you believe that you will be able to
reach the customer through this channel,
etc.
You believe it because you haven’t
proved it yet.
Therefore, in hypotheses there
must be this component of uncertainty,
that is, there are hypotheses
that are actually absolutely
validated.
I would put a case, if you mount a
bar on the most transit street of your
city, because it is clear that by
that street, by your escaparat, etc.,
thousands of people will pass by your local.
You do a market research and you
know, it’s not a hypothesis that
you really have to validate in
advance, because there is no longer
uncertainty about it.
The criterion of the hypotheses is
that we still do not have evidence
to determine it.
We will help a lot the link both
because what allows you is to describe
your business model and helps you
not to leave hypotheses because
you have the visibility of
all the factors.
I think mostly the hypotheses,
there are several classifications
but I would classify
them in four.
The first is the value-related
hypotheses, with which we are
able to create value to
customers.
They perceive it.
There is a possibility related to
who those customers are.
We believe our customers will
be, since a certain segment,
but we will have to prove it.
Another very important hypothesis
is the one related to growth,
with how we will be able to
reach those customer segments.
And finally I would say that there can
be a group of hypotheses that are
related to the profitability of the
model, with the income and with the
remains, with which we eventually
make money.
To make you understand how
the practice works or what level
of detail this hypothesis
identification analysis is
carried out, I will share with
you a brief analysis of Power MBA,
of what are the hypotheses we
are facing initially, many of
which we have already validated.
As you will see, all the hypotheses
begin, I have described them
with believing that, because they
are really beliefs, they are beliefs
that we had and that many,
as I tell you, are already validated.
Well, the first hypothesis or the
first belief is that there is a problem
or that there was a problem.
Innovative models usually
have to start from a problem,
from a problem that has
not yet been given an
optimal solution.
And what we believe is that traditional
education programs do not
respond to the needs of a lot
of people for a number of reasons,
because they are, because it
requires a high investment, because
it requires a lot of dedication,
etc., because they are
not updated.
It is a belief that we
had from which we built
the rest of the model.
In addition, and to determine how
important the hypothesis of the
size of the market, who our customers
are, is in this case, we believe
that millions of people
around the world have this
problem.
As you can see, this is
something absolutely determining, this
absolutely determining hypothesis
of the size of the business,
the attractiveness that you eventually
have of Power MBA and the
rating that you can.
We believe that there are millions of
people in the world, but we will
have to prove it and depending on
whether we demonstrate it or not, because
Power MBA will be worth more or less.
In addition, a very important
belief is that we have been
able to create a proposal that
will solve those problems.
We think the proposal will
be attractive, we have
verified it.
In addition, here I recommend in this
case that the analysis of the
hypotheses do it with a certain
level of detail because you can provide
certain solutions, certain
functionalities, for example,
of your product, etc., but you would
need to validate them separately
because it may be that not all
of them provide and build it, remove
it from the proposal, make
a cleaner proposal, a
clearer message, etc.
In our case, the components that
give solution to those problems is
a very affordable price, the fact
that you can study very conveniently
15 minutes a day on any device,
etc., and in addition we
have incorporated the
analysis of the cases of professionals
with great success.
These are the components that
we believe will solve those
problems that we had previously
identified.
Well, in addition to this and
it is something very important
in our case, we had the hypothesis
that in addition to our objective
customers would perceive as very
attractive the proposal, that
we validated it very quickly
when we went out to the market,
we had to validate other
hypotheses, that really once
you have students or clients,
in our case is students, we
would be able to make students
happy by a series of factors,
which we also had to validate
them separately too.
Well, then, that students perceive
that they are learning really,
that they are acquiring knowledge
that is useful in their professional
career.
We had to validate another of the
values and it is that the
students will consider it
entertaining, fun.
As you can see, they are all beliefs,
because they are before you have come
out to the market, you have no idea,
you think it will be so, you believe
you will be able to build a product
that results in this case entertaining,
but you have not yet validated
it.
And it’s also very convenient and I
recommend that you make many hypotheses
that you can convert them into metric.
For example, we believed from
the beginning, since we drew
the business model, that about
70% or at least 70% of that
is much higher ratio than
other digital programs,
to other online programs
like on the MOOC platforms.
A very important metric and
a very powerful hypothesis regarding
very related to the value
we would be able to deliver.
Or, for example, a very important
hypothesis is usually the percentage
of your customers who will recommend
you, also related to the
value.
And we have always wanted
at least 40% of our clients,
our students, to recommend
us throughout the
program.
I’m going to convey a hypothesis
that is related to competitive
advantage or entry
barrier, with what makes
us truly unique.
We thought we would be able to
have the collaboration
of numerous figures, who would
help us create a very entertaining,
very enriching program.
At the initial moment it was just a
belief, we had to validate it and
we validated it.
We can do this because we
have adapted the strategy to it.
So far we have seen hypotheses
that are mainly qualitative,
hypotheses related
to value, the attractiveness
that potential customers
see, the value that you are
finally able to deliver, etc.
But it is very important
that you identify and make the
main metrics of your business
hypotheses.
The main ones, those that will determine
whether you have a business model
that makes sense or not.
And in our case they
are mainly related to the
ability to grow profitably.
And what are they?
So, we can get a number
of leads per month.
For example, we put 10,000 leads per month.
If the cost of 10,000 leads in students
is a bit of a percentage,
we put it at 10%.
The cost of customer
acquisition is X.
It is a data and it is a very important
hypothesis because if the cost of
capture is higher than what you
get for each student, you are not
paying money and your business
model is meaningless.
Or, for example, that your organic
growth, which is not paid,
is a yearly percentage on
customers.
As you can see, these are the main
metrics that we have to convert into
concrete hypotheses, which are concrete
beliefs, which we will have to validate
as soon as possible.
It will determine whether
it makes sense or not.
How will we validate it?
We will test it with
very quick tests.
All the hypotheses we have identified,
what we have to do is create
an organization that is as
agile as possible to go validating
them.
We can validate them together
or we can validate them through
concrete experiments for
each of the concrete hypotheses.
But the sooner we do it and spend
the least money possible,
the better.
Sooner we know.
Whether we are wrong in these
beliefs or not, much
better.
Because we’ll be closer to
having a business model that
finally makes sense.